Dependency injection is very important for unit testing.
You cannot unit test service when it's tightly coupled to its dependencies.
Service becomes unit testable when it's loosely coupled to its dependencies.
On one hand, the service is creating its dependency.
And on the other hand, the dependency already exists inside the spring container as a bean.
The service is simply using it.
Anyways.
What should we unit test?
We should unit test the service because it contains all of your business logic.
Business logic is most prone to bugs.
In other words, we're going to need a service test class that's entirely devoted to testing the service
class.
The test class contains a unit test for every meaningful piece of logic inside of grade service.
If every unit test passes, then you can rest assured that the grade service doesn't have any bugs.
If one of your tests fails, then there's a bug inside of grade service, so you'll need to fix your
code until the unit test passes.
Once it passes, you'll know that you fixed your bug.
Now here's the catch.
You cannot test the service class when it's tightly coupled to its dependencies.
We need a service test class that's entirely devoted to testing only the service class and nothing else.
In a tightly coupled scenario, great service creates its own repository dependency.
The goal is to test great service in complete isolation.
But the dependency is a disturbance.
The dependency returns data based on logic defined in the repository class.
It interferes with our unit test because we only want to test the logic inside of great service.
Tight coupling means we can never test a great service in complete isolation.
That's why a loose coupling is important.
In loose coupling, the class does not create a dependency.
Rather, the dependency already exists inside of the spring container.
We're simply using it.
Spring injects a bean into the variable.
And so you can achieve dependency injection using auto fired.
But the thing is, when your unit testing, you're not actually starting up the spring boot up, you're
only running the test class and nothing else.
There is no mechanism for component scanning.
There is no spring container, which means there are no beans to inject.
So when you're testing, this variable is actually null.
But because the service class is loosely coupled, we can inject a mock into the variable instead.
The mock can mimic the behavior of a dependency, but it doesn't have any logic of its own.
From the testing class, we can completely control what the mock can or can't return.
So ultimately, using a mock allows you to test grade service in complete isolation.
So to recap, you can only unit test a class when it's loosely coupled.
If service is tightly coupled to its dependency, then you're stuck with it.
You can never test the grade service in isolation.
The dependency logic will always interfere with the great service logic that we want to test.
If the service is loosely coupled, then we can inject a mock instead.
The mock doesn't have any logic of its own, so we can test grade service in complete isolation.